

As a web designer by trade I’ve been producing digital stuff for pretty much all of my professional life.
Recently, I started publishing [a real magazine](http://www.offscreenmag.com/) and have since become aware of
and learned a lot about the ways in which we experience real, physical products. I’m fascinated with the
power that emanates from them.

I love doing what you may call “usability research”. I walk into one of my stockists and observe how my
magazine is being picked up, carefully inspected, smelled, touched, flicked through, skimmed and then either
put back or purchased. 

There is something unique about the “check out” process when you buy real products. Your immediate
judgment asks you to consider whether this thing in your hands is worth the price tag. You rely on all of your
senses to make that judgement call. If it feels right (literally) you might end up walking out of that shop
with a new read. 

However, I still sell the vast majority of my (print) magazine online. As weird as it sounds coming from me
and given the subject matter, this is somewhat unfortunate, because it breaks the physical experience. Yet, it
still makes for some very interesting observations.

When I shipped the first issue I didn’t expect every other tweet to be about people having a great time
sniffing my mag once they unwrapped it. Some incoming emails tried to persuade me to start producing notebooks
with the same paper, as they had fallen in love with the touch of the stock. Some folks actually bought two
copies, one to peruse and one to leave untouched on their shelves.

I love technology, and just like everyone else I spend (too) much of my days staring at screens. Producing
Offscreen reminds me why we all still love the occasional “real” book, why we spent big bucks on novelty
notebooks to scribble in or why letterpress has seen such a renaissance. 

It’s the longing for a truly sensual experience and physical ownership. Give it dog ears. Leave a coffee
stain. Make it your own. Take it along for the ride. It’s almost like a witness, a physical proof of “been
there, done that”. Printed objects have a sense of
[origin](http://blog.offscreenmag.com/post/53707558820/why-does-a-printed-magazine-or-a-book-feel-so) and
uniqueness that digital objects will never have. We give them more of our attention. We respect them for what
they are (enough to put them on your bookshelves like trophies). We proudly lend them to our friends under the
provision that they take care of them.

No, Print is not dead. It’s just waiting to be rediscovered by those worthy of it.