

This is an exciting week for me, but also one where I feel a little bit guilty. Coming up on Friday is the
[Sixteenth Annual Skills Canada Provincial Competition for Newfoundland and
Labrador](http://www.skillscanada-nfld.com) (my home province). It may be a mouthful, but it’s definitely a
wonderful opportunity for young people interested in trades and technology. 

[Skills Canada](http://www.skillscanada.com) is a not-for-profit organisation which I’ve been a part of for
many years as a competitor, coach, and technical committee member. It’s all part of the larger organisation,
World Skills, which brings students who excel in their field together for four intensive days of competition.
There are competitions in web design, graphic design, video production, cooking, baking, hairstyling,
carpentry, bricklaying, and many more—I kind of like to refer to it as the “Nerd Olympics.” The ultimate
goal, of course, is to represent your country at the biannual [World Skills
Competition](http://www.worldskillsleipzig2013.com/en/) (the next one is hosted in Leipzig, Germany this
July).

I competed in Skills Canada throughout high school and college, in both web design and graphic design, and
after college I stayed with the organisation as a technical committee member for graphic design. After seeing
a greater need to help students get involved in web design, I switched committees and I now run annual
workshops for students under the age of sixteen. This Friday, I’ll get to help run the provincial
competition, judge the projects, and decide who’ll be sent to the nationals to represent this province.

I’m sure you’re thinking that this all sounds great—so why do I feel guilty?

I feel guilty because I don't spend enough time volunteering as I should, could, and want to.

Granted, it isn’t easy. Since college, I’ve been trying to balance a full-time day job with freelance on
the side and still make time to teach myself new things, work on my own projects, keep in shape, spend time
with friends, and not get burned out in the process. Now, I’ve got a full-time freelance life to sort out on
top of even more exciting opportunities. There are people out there who seem to be able to do all of this and
much more—what’s their secret? Who knows.

I guess the most important thing is that I’m doing something, no matter how small or infrequent it might be.
I’ll definitely try to do more than I have been doing, even if it just means increasing the number of
workshops that I hold. These kids are our future, and without mentors, we might lose them before they even
realise the opportunities that they have. And I’d feel much more guilty about that. 