

I have a partner in life. Her name is [Michelle](https://twitter.com/sophiasharp). We’ve known each other
for eight years and met as co-workers. We are equals, and very alike. We’re both ambitious, unafraid of
confrontation, and decisive. We have a shared sense of humor that ranges from “razor sharp” to “total
goofball.” We’re fiercely protective of a close circle of friends. We like the same music, the same food,
the same travel destinations, the same television shows, the same sports. Our desires both day-to-day and
long-term are never at odds. Over the course of our relationship, we’ve grown even more similar. We rarely
fight, and our marriage is stronger for it. We are successful because we agree on nearly everything without
discussion.

I have a partner in business. His name is [Nathan](https://twitter.com/nathanperetic). We’ve known each
other for six years, and too began our relationship as co-workers. We are equals in a different way: we’re
almost exact opposites. He’s rational, whereas I’m emotional. He’s politically conservative and a man of
faith; I’m liberal and a non-theist. His intense focus leaves him aloof; my awareness keeps me from
focusing. He relies on study and the experience of experts; I rely on instinct and my own experience. Over the
course of our relationship, we’ve polarized even further. We disagree almost daily, and our business is
stronger for it. We are successful because every idea must pass the test of debate.

It’s a well-trodden anecdote that 50% of the marriages in America end in divorce. I think about this
statistic quite a bit, wondering if my wife and I have done everything we can to beat the odds. But I also
find myself wondering if it applies to business as well.

Nate and I joke all the time about being *de facto* married, and it’s not far from the truth. We spend a
third of our lives together. We’re contractually bound to each other. It’s hard for people to think of one
of us without thinking of the other. What we’ve learned is, what’s important in marriage is equally
important in business: communication, trust, shared goals, familiarity, respect. And just like marriage, it
isn’t always easy.

I don’t think it’s necessary that Michelle and I agree all the time for our marriage to succeed, nor do I
think that Nate and I need to agree more for our business to stay successful. What *is* important is that I
know where they stand at all times. When an issue arises, I can predict with near certainty how they’re
going to react. My personal and professional relationships work because I know exactly who I’m literally and
figuratively getting into bed with.

Our industry is full of shotgun weddings and arranged marriages: startups that appear from thin air, sudden
acquihires, haphazardly-installed CEOs, messy mergers, and the like. Here’s hoping we’re all on the path
to professional matrimony.