

Can we *truly* reflect a product or service’s __brand__ if we only create one small part of it?

In my personal experience, I can easily say that the projects where I’ve had complete control or continuous
input into all design and communication decisions have been by far (and continue to be) the most successful
for client and studio alike.

We all know that a brand is so much more than a logo, typeface, and colour palette. So why is it that we
accept projects where these may be the only things supplied to us?

I’ve found myself challenging this over and over again since starting my own studio, especially coming from
my previous role at a respected London branding agency. Every time I work with a new client who has an
existing identity, I educate them to understand the importance of a cohesive brand experience — usually
through sharing improvements to, and further applications of, their current brand language[1](#fn1) rather
than trying to find the right words.

These clients have very quickly come to appreciate the importance of us taking their whole brand into
consideration, before jumping straight into “what they need”.

This is, interestingly, the way it always goes too. Never have I had a new client approach me who already had
a brand that spoke volumes, always with a consistent style, tone, and message. If they did, I would have to
challenge them on why they are only now turning to me, when they are quite obviously in complete control. Why
would they want to jeopardise the strength of their brand by involving someone outside of the thinking to
date? With the correct answer, I might choose to take them on as a client — but if they didn’t know why,
I’d advise them to continue using whoever they had been using all along.

Whether it’s a brand’s main website, a private customer area, an app, a digital or physical banner, an
exhibition space, business card, door sign, a sub-brand, a customer email, how staff converse, what is sent
out in the post, or how the brand attracts new business, there always needs to be someone thinking at this
elevated level. Even if it is not you who creates all of these elements, you should always make the effort to
be aware of all of them, advise on them if you can, and offer your expertise while wearing their brand
cap.

To sum up — as designers, we need to take on the responsibility of a client’s entire brand when accepting
work. If you simply “do your bit” without thought into how it fits into the bigger picture, you’re doing
yourself and your client an injustice.

[1](#r1) Brand language is a term I use to encapsulate all…