

We’re all just making it up as we go along. Since this wonderful site is mostly themed around the design and
dev community, you’re probably thinking that I mean “us”. You’re right, but only for partial
credit.

[CERN](http://www.w3.org/History/19921103-hypertext/hypertext/WWW/TheProject.html) was launched in 1991, so
we’ve only been at it for a little over 20 years. There have been times where I have looked up to people in
the industry and have thought they knew it all and that I was so far behind. The more that I have read,
attended meetups, attended conferences and organized conferences, the more I have learned that everyone is
just making it up as they go along. 

If you believe that, it may either scare you that no one has it all together or it may inspire you to grow
your [T](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/T-shaped_skills). If you need a little more inspiration, my favorite
quote about our industry comes from [Dr. Leslie
Jensen-Inman](http://www.jenseninman.com/blog/13737040/speakingupitstime): “It’s our responsibility to
leave our industry better than we found it.” We need you. We need you to learn and to share the things that
you learn in order for the industry to become better.

Now I have to take it further, as I said that thinking about the community was only partial credit. While we
certainly have a much longer history, I say that humanity as a whole is just making it up as we go along. In
beginning to believe this, I leaned towards the scared part at first but have been growing more inspired.
There are many things that seem wrong with our world, so realizing that even our leaders don’t know it all
inspires me to think that we can change things. Altering Leslie’s quote a bit, I think that we have a
responsibility to leave our world better than we found it.

The crazy part is not just believing that you can do it, but in realizing that there are thousands of ways
that you can. We are building things every day that make communication and education more accessible to the
planet. These things can be used to make things better, to learn about life, and to share what we have learned
with others.

This is my last entry and I will leave you with a [thought from Steve
Jobs](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kYfNvmF0Bqw). “Everything around you that you call life was made up by
people that were no smarter than you and you can change it, you can influence it, you can build your own
things that other people can use.” 